---
author: astrophoenix
comments: true
date: 2008-07-27 22:25:22+00:00
layout: post
link: http://astrophoenix.com/blog/?p=19206
slug: 19206
title: Dark
wordpress_id: 19206
categories:
- motorcycle
- ninja
tags:
- ninja
- ride
---

I rode to Fry's to get some groceries (2.2 miles round trip). That was fun because I parked on the sidewalk, out of the way.

Then later I realized I needed another part for the pool pump---I found yet another worn out gasket, and had to run to the pool store before they closed. The pool store run was 17.1 miles.

Around sunset time I decided to ride up 88 highway again. I took most of the curves around 35mph with a few at 40mph. I didn't want to try them any faster than that. I had some mental barrier or something where I wouldn't let myself go any faster than that. probably for the best!

There was no traffic at all going up the hill, but there were some trucks and boats coming down.

Also, I crossed that one lane bridge up there just before the campground and marinas and that was pretty unnerving; instead of being paved, the floor of the bridge is just a metal grating. So after getting past that, I turned around in the campground and headed back down.

By the time I was coming back down, traffic had died down quite a bit. I only caught up to one truck, and he moved over to let me pass immediately! That was nice. Even at my slow pace he never caught back up to me.

Since I was driving back down in the dark, I ran into a fair amount of bugs; I had to clean off my helmet and the front of the motorcycle when I got home.

The run up 88 and back was 31 miles. I'm up to 939 miles now.
